---
author: Alek Petuskey
date: 2024-09-21
title: Reflex v0.6.0
description: New features and improvements in Reflex v0.6.0
image: /blog/reflex-060.webp
meta: [
    {"name": "keywords", "content": ""},
]
---

```python exec
from pcweb import constants
import reflex as rx
from pcweb.pages.docs import styling
```

Reflex v0.6.0 is here! In this blog post, we’ll go over all the major improvements and changes since v0.5.0.

### Decentralized Var Operations

In this release, we reworked vars and made var operations to be more extensible. These changes make vars more stable and easier to work with along with adding more type safety.


To an end reflex users, there is no visible change and it should be backward compatible with previous versions.

### Consistent Theming

Reflex now supports a consistent theming system across all core components. More information can be found [here]({styling.theming.path}). Apps can now be configured with a theme object that can change the appearance through the props background, accent color, gray color, and scaling factor.


```python
app = rx.App(
    theme=rx.theme(
        appearance="light",
        has_background=True,
        radius="large",
        accent_color="teal",
    )
)
``` 

### Graphing Improvements

We significantly improved our graphing components. Our core components now inherit the app theme and are fully customizable. 

### Responsive Support For All Props

Reflex now comes with configurable responsive breakpoints for all props.

```python
rx.text(
    "Hello World",
    color=rx.breakpoints(
        initial="orange",
        sm="purple",
        lg="green",
    ),
)
```

More information can be found [here]({styling.responsive.path}).

### DiskStateManager to maintain state between reloads

When saving a file Reflex now uses a DiskStateManager to maintain state between reloads. When a file is saved the state is written to the disk and when a file is reloaded the state is read from the disk. This means that the state is preserved across reloads and you don't lose your application state during a 'reflex run'.

The application state is reset when you stop a 'reflex run' and start it again.

### Move Chakra to Third Party

Since moving our core component to Radix we have now moved Chakra to third party. This means that we no longer bundle Chakra with Reflex. Instead you can install it seperately.

```bash
pip install reflex-chakra
```

You can access then under that namespace like so:

```python
import reflex_chakra as rc

def index() -> rx.Component:
    return rc.button("Hello World")
```

## Whats next on on the open source roadmap

To see what is coming next make sure to check out our [roadmap](https://github.com/reflex-dev/reflex/issues/2727).